README.md, before:

# Samsung The Frame Gallery

Python project to manage a Samsung The Frame TV as a digital frame and (photo) gallery.

## Running from source

### Requirements

- Python 3.10 or higher
- Poetry
- NodeJS 16 or higher

Run the following commands to install the required dependencies:

```bash
poetry install
cd ui && npm install
```

### Running the project

To run the project, you need to start the backend and the frontend separately:

```bash
poetry run uvicorn framegallery.main:app --reload --port 7999
cd ui && npm start
```

### Running the project via Docker

First build the image with:
```bash
docker build -f Dockerfile -t slknijnenburg/framegallery:latest . 
```

`docker run -it --rm -v $(pwd)/images:/app/images -v $(pwd)/data:/app/data slknijnenburg/framegallery:latest`

#### Image configuration

The Frame's aspect ratio is 16:9.  Images with these dimensions can be configured with any matte.
Images with an aspect ratio of 3:2 (e.g. 1920x1280) can also be configured with a matte. When using "none" the image will be slightly cropped to 1920x1080.
Images with an aspect ratio of 4:3 (e.g. 1920x1440) can also be configured with a matte. When using "none" the image will be cropped to 1920x1080

It actually seems you can select any matte style for any image, as long the slideshow mode is disabled.

Commit message:

Copy alembic into docker image
And add notes on how to run it when there are migrations

README.md, after:

# Samsung The Frame Gallery

Python project to manage a Samsung The Frame TV as a digital frame and (photo) gallery.

## Running from source

### Requirements

- Python 3.10 or higher
- Poetry
- NodeJS 16 or higher

Run the following commands to install the required dependencies:

```bash
poetry install
cd ui && npm install
```

### Running the project

To run the project, you need to start the backend and the frontend separately:

```bash
poetry run uvicorn framegallery.main:app --reload --port 7999
cd ui && npm start
```

### Running the project via Docker

First build the image with:
```bash
docker build -f Dockerfile -t slknijnenburg/framegallery:latest . 
```

Then run it with:
```bash
docker run -it --rm -v $(pwd)/images:/app/images -v $(pwd)/data:/app/data slknijnenburg/framegallery:latest
```

In case changes were made to the database schema, migrations will need to be executed manually when running the updated container.
This can be done with the following command:

```bash
docker run -it --rm -v $(pwd)/images:/app/images -v $(pwd)/data:/app/data slknijnenburg/framegallery:latest poetry run alembic upgrade head
```

#### Image configuration

The Frame's aspect ratio is 16:9.  Images with these dimensions can be configured with any matte.
Images with an aspect ratio of 3:2 (e.g. 1920x1280) can also be configured with a matte. When using "none" the image will be slightly cropped to 1920x1080.
Images with an aspect ratio of 4:3 (e.g. 1920x1440) can also be configured with a matte. When using "none" the image will be cropped to 1920x1080

It actually seems you can select any matte style for any image, as long the slideshow mode is disabled.
